README.md, before:

# The Brewery Project

[The Brewery Project - Official Website](https://the-brewery-project.github.io/The-Brewery-Project/)

## General Procedures for Working with the Website

0. The following assumes a *forked* or *cloned* repository.
1. Install Quarto and `install.packages("rmarkdown")` if you haven't already (**VSCode** is an additional option to RStudio/Quarto).
2. Whenever you do git pull, always rebase: `git pull --rebase`.
3. If attempting something *major*, create a branch for any work that could have a major effect (aka the `.qmd` files), and start your branch name with initials, e.g. `CK_Branch_1`.
4. **ALWAYS** keep your git updated, do `git pull` always before any committing, pushing, branches, etc.
5. Recommended to perform `quarto render` on the CLI/bash before pushing.
6. When pushing, a force push may be necessary. Make sure to pay attention to which branch is being pushed.
7. Github will automatically turn the `docs/` folder file changes into the website.

## Example Command Line and Work Procedure

1. cd into repository
2. `git pull --rebase`
3. pay attention to branch; will most likely be working on branch `main`
4. make contributions
5. it's good practice to make `git status` checks
6. optional, but recommended, apply `quarto render`
7. `git add [file(s)]` (can use `git add .` to add all available files)
8. commit contribution: if text editor set to appear to receive and edit message, use `git commit`
9. commit contribution: (or alternatively), use `git commit -m "message"`
10. finally, `git push origin [branch]`; will most likely want to use `git push origin main`

## Data Sources

### [Open Brewery DB](https://www.openbrewerydb.org/)

- [GitHub Directory](https://github.com/openbrewerydb/openbrewerydb/)
  - [csv files](https://github.com/openbrewerydb/openbrewerydb/tree/master/data)
- [API Documentation](https://www.openbrewerydb.org/documentation)
- See `open-brewery-db-exploration.ipynb` for exploratory measures in extracting data via API
- See `open-brewery-db-extractor.py` for final extraction from the API into `open-brewery-db.csv`
  
### [Top College Towns](https://listwithclever.com/research/best-college-towns-2021/)

- See `top-colleges-exploration.ipynb` for exploratory measures in extracting data via API
- See `top-colleges-extractor.py` for final extraction from the API into `top_colleges.csv`

### [Top Metropolitan Cities](https://worldpopulationreview.com/us-cities)

- See `The_Brewery_Project_EDA_(Metro).ipynb` for exploratory measures in extracting data via API
- See `the_brewery_project_web_scraping_(metro).py` for final extraction from the API into `file.csv`

### [Top Tech Hubs](https://www.zdnet.com/education/computers-tech/top-tech-hubs-in-the-us/)

- See `The_Brewery_Project_EDA_(Tech).ipynb` for exploratory measures in extracting data via API
- See `the_brewery_project_web_scraping_(tech).py` for final extraction from the API into `file.csv`

### [Ski Resorts](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ski_areas_and_resorts_in_the_United_States)

- See `The_Brewery_Project_EDA_(Ski_Resorts).ipynb` for exploratory measures in extracting data via API
- See `the_brewery_project_web_scraping_(ski_resorts).py` for final extraction from the API into `file.csv`

### [National Parks](https://www.nationalparktrips.com/parks/us-national-parks-by-state-list/)

- See `the_brewery_project_web_scraping_(national_parks).py` for exploratory measures in extracting data via API
- See `open-brewery-db-extractor.py` for final extraction from the API into `file.csv`
  
### [Census](https://www.census.gov/data/tables/time-series/demo/popest/2020s-counties-detail.html)

- See `[file].ipynb` for exploratory measures in extracting data via API
- See `[file].py` for final extraction from the API into `file.csv`

## Directory

## Compiling

### Website and Report
1. `cd` into project root directory (will likely look like `The-Brewery-Project (main)`)
2. run `quarto render`
3. `cd` into `scripts`
4. run `python pdf_manager.py`
5. `cd` back into project root directory (`cd ..`)

### Data Management
1. `cd` into project root directory (will likely look like `The-Brewery-Project (main)`)
2. `cd` into `scripts`
3. run `python open-brewery-db-extractor.py`
  
## Project Management

- [**Google Colab**](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1ibfuagpEE6WWkICI7EIa3ieKFlFbBQqU?authuser=1)
- [**Google Document**](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1eNdriCLmfu4RV5lMJWjYJYKHs_v17lRWWTFNnlEVmzs/edit)

Commit message:

updated readme and start modeling section in quarto

README.md, after:

# The Brewery Project

[The Brewery Project - Official Website](https://the-brewery-project.github.io/The-Brewery-Project/)

## General Procedures for Working with the Website

0. The following assumes a *forked* or *cloned* repository.
1. Install Quarto and `install.packages("rmarkdown")` if you haven't already (**VSCode** is an additional option to RStudio/Quarto).
2. Whenever you do git pull, always rebase: `git pull --rebase`.
3. If attempting something *major*, create a branch for any work that could have a major effect (aka the `.qmd` files), and start your branch name with initials, e.g. `CK_Branch_1`.
4. **ALWAYS** keep your git updated, do `git pull` always before any committing, pushing, branches, etc.
5. Recommended to perform `quarto render` on the CLI/bash before pushing.
6. When pushing, a force push may be necessary. Make sure to pay attention to which branch is being pushed.
7. Github will automatically turn the `docs/` folder file changes into the website.

## Example Command Line and Work Procedure

1. cd into repository
2. `git pull --rebase`
3. pay attention to branch; will most likely be working on branch `main`
4. make contributions
5. it's good practice to make `git status` checks
6. optional, but recommended, apply `quarto render`
7. `git add [file(s)]` (can use `git add .` to add all available files)
8. commit contribution: if text editor set to appear to receive and edit message, use `git commit`
9. commit contribution: (or alternatively), use `git commit -m "message"`
10. finally, `git push origin [branch]`; will most likely want to use `git push origin main`

## Data Sources

### [Open Brewery DB](https://www.openbrewerydb.org/)

- [GitHub Directory](https://github.com/openbrewerydb/openbrewerydb/)
  - [csv files](https://github.com/openbrewerydb/openbrewerydb/tree/master/data)
- [API Documentation](https://www.openbrewerydb.org/documentation)
- See `open-brewery-db-exploration.ipynb` for exploratory measures in extracting data via API
- See `open-brewery-db-extractor.py` for final extraction from the API into `open-brewery-db.csv`
  
### [Top College Towns](https://listwithclever.com/research/best-college-towns-2021/)

- See `top-colleges-exploration.ipynb` for exploratory measures in extracting data via API
- See `top-colleges-extractor.py` for final extraction from the API into `top_colleges.csv`

### [Top Metropolitan Cities](https://worldpopulationreview.com/us-cities)

- See `The_Brewery_Project_EDA_(Metro).ipynb` for exploratory measures in extracting data via API
- See `the_brewery_project_web_scraping_(metro).py` for final extraction from the API into `metropolianCities.csv`

### [Top Tech Hubs](https://www.zdnet.com/education/computers-tech/top-tech-hubs-in-the-us/)

- See `The_Brewery_Project_EDA_(Tech).ipynb` for exploratory measures in extracting data via API
- See `the_brewery_project_web_scraping_(tech).py` for final extraction from the API into `techHubs.csv`

### [Ski Resorts](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ski_areas_and_resorts_in_the_United_States)

- See `The_Brewery_Project_EDA_(Ski_Resorts).ipynb` for exploratory measures in extracting data via API
- See `the_brewery_project_web_scraping_(ski_resorts).py` for final extraction from the API into `ski_resorts.csv`

### [National Parks](https://www.nationalparktrips.com/parks/us-national-parks-by-state-list/)

- See `The_Brewery_Project_EDA_(National_Parks).ipynb` for exploratory measures in extracting data via API
- See `the_brewery_project_web_scraping_(national_parks).py` for final extraction from the API into `national_parks.csv`
  
### [Census](https://www.census.gov/data/tables/time-series/demo/popest/2020s-counties-detail.html)

- See `the_brewery_project_web_scraping_(national_parks).py` for final extraction from the API into `censusData.csv`

## Directory

## Compiling

### Website and Report
1. `cd` into project root directory (will likely look like `The-Brewery-Project (main)`)
2. run `quarto render`
3. `cd` into `scripts`
4. run `python pdf_manager.py`
5. `cd` back into project root directory (`cd ..`)

### Data Management
1. `cd` into project root directory (will likely look like `The-Brewery-Project (main)`)
2. `cd` into `scripts`
3. run `python open-brewery-db-extractor.py`
4. run `python dataset_manager.py` (for merging together all `csv` files together into a dataset *almost* fit for modeling)
  
## Project Management

- [**Google Colab**](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1ibfuagpEE6WWkICI7EIa3ieKFlFbBQqU?authuser=1)
- [**Google Document**](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1eNdriCLmfu4RV5lMJWjYJYKHs_v17lRWWTFNnlEVmzs/edit)
